# TFIDF

I'm figuring how to run the term frequency vectorizer on my data. I'm a bit confused as to what preprocessing to do before hand. I'll be using the scikit-learn function `TfidfVectorizer` here. As input it takes a list with each element being a string (one document). In looking at the inputs to the TFIDF function, it appears to by default do many of the pre-processing steps that I might want, including:

* Converts everything to lowercase
* Tokenizes
* Can remove stop words if you ask

A question is if I want to also do any Stemming or Lemmatizing here. 

## Compring Stem vs Lem

As an end user, it appears that Lemmatization might be better if you want to use the features (e.g., visualize) them later. But lem approach is slower so. Borrowed some of notes for this from https://www.datacamp.com/community/tutorials/stemming-lemmatization-python.

* Stemming is the process of reducing inflection in words to their root forms such as mapping a group of words to the same stem even if the stem itself is not a valid word in the Language.
* Lemmatization, unlike Stemming, reduces the inflected words properly ensuring that the root word belongs to the language. In Lemmatization root word is called**Lemma**. A lemma (plural lemmas or lemmata) is the canonical form, dictionary form, or citation form of a set of words.

What's different between them for usage?

* Stemming and Lemmatization both generate the root form of the inflected words. The difference is that stem might not be an actual word whereas, lemma is an actual language word.
    
* Stemming follows an algorithm with steps to perform on the words which makes it faster. Whereas, in lemmatization, you used WordNet corpus and a corpus for stop words as well to produce lemma which makes it slower than stemming. You also had to define a parts-of-speech to obtain the correct lemma.

## On Text Preproc

These are two useful links for this:

* https://machinelearningmastery.com/clean-text-machine-learning-python/
* https://towardsdatascience.com/nlp-for-beginners-cleaning-preprocessing-text-data-ae8e306bef0f