# The Personal

I got up earlier this morning thinking I'd get this proximity model out of the way but then got distracted (but a good one) in talking to Anika about moving to our newer apartment soon + how to lay things out there + other recent decisions we've made.

# Proximity Model

For this, I'll want to build a simple k-nearest neighbor. I have my TFIDF little feature generator. I likely should save that output first so I can load that model later when needed. So the k-nearest neighbor function would take in this matrix of the representations and then given an input vector representation, it would find the closest 10 recipes. It would then output those 10 recipes.

## Similarity Measure

I was trying the cosine similarity and correlation coefficient. Since I was loading in a vector and comparing it to a matrix, it wasn’t apparent to me how I could easily do this...corrcoef was appending the column and then doin the correlation across everything X and Y combined. But the cosine worked well. The difference between the cosine is that it is the same as the correlation when the means of X and Y are 0.

I get why the Euclidean distance and cosine similarity are different but I feel that I need to look into it more or play with it more to get a better intuition of the problem.

I should note that earlier I had run the correlation and that gave not great results. It’s cool to see the difference here by using the cosine similarity. I should think more about this intuition too. I think in general it makes sense to not remove the mean from each...

## Making the Function

Now I got this thing down. What is now needed to create the final class or function?

## Next Steps

In the above, I calculate the nearest neighbors in real-time. I could use the annoy package, which would create an index ahead of time and then make the lookup super fast. https://github.com/spotify/annoy

It would be great to either apply a PCA to the TFIDF data and then run the proximity model or I was also looking at topic extraction with scikit learn.

I'll also want to play with the ngram argument.


# Chris Meeting

## Coding Session

Given a list of integers and a target number, find all pairs in the list of integers that sum to the target number.

```
[1, 4, 5, 2, 1], 6 -> [(1,5), (2,4)]


# 1. Test Cases
[1,4,5,2]
## extreme
[1,4]

# 2. Function
def find_target(lst_ints, target):
    all_diffs = {}
    uniq_pairs = set()
    
    for i in lst_ints:
        diff = target - i
        if i > diff:
            
        if diff in all_diffs:
            # sort i and diff
            uniq_pairs.append(hash_pairs(i,diff))
        else:
            all_diffs[i] = diff
        
    return uniq_pairs

# 3. The Tests
assert 


target = 6
lst_ints = [1,4,5,2,1]
find_target(lst_ints, target)


# Test
target = 6
lst_ints = [1,4,5,2,1]
ref_output = [(1,5), (2,4)]
upairs = find_target(lst_ints, target)
assert find_target(lst_ints, target) == set((1,5),(2,4))
assert find_target([], 12) == set()
```

## Server Next Steps

Take in a set of ingredients (string), and then I need to get the vectorized representation from a pickle loaded TFIDF model and then I use the proximity to model to get the closest recipe. Want to post the recipe id.
- Point is to make sure that can do this whole loading the pickle and using it work

## Using virtualenv

I want a virtualenv setup and with pip + the packages that are needed